Add support for static routing to Workers Assets (#9416)
cloudflare/workers-sdk: .changeset/tasty-hoops-own.md

---
"@cloudflare/workers-shared": minor
---

Adds support for static routing to Workers Assets

Implements the proposal noted here https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/discussions/9143

> In brief: when static routing is present for a Worker with assets, routing via those static rules takes precedence. When a request is evaluated in the Router Worker, the request path is first compared to the "asset" rules (which are to be specific via "negative" rules, e.g. "!/api/assets"). If any match, the request is forwarded directly to the Asset Worker. If instead any "user_worker" rules match, the request is forwarded directly to the User Worker. If neither match (or static routing was not provided), the existing behavior takes over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In brief: when static routing is present for a Worker with assets, routing via those static rules takes precedence. When a request is evaluated in the Router Worker, the request path is first compared to the `"asset_worker"` rules (which are to be specific via "negative" rules, e.g. `"!/api/assets"`). If any match, the request is forwarded directly to the Asset Worker. If instead any `"user_worker"` rules match, the request is forwarded directly to the User Worker. If neither match (or static routing was not provided), the existing behavior takes over.
```

> As part of this explicit routing, when static routing is present, the check against "Sec-Fetch-Mode: navigate" (to guess if this should serve an asset or go to the User Worker for not_found_handling) is disabled. Routing can be controlled by setting routing rules via "run_worker_first", and asset serving (including when an index.html or 404.html page is served) will be more simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of this explicit routing, when static routing is present, the check against `Sec-Fetch-Mode: navigate` (to decide if this should serve an asset or go to the User Worker for not_found_handling) is disabled. Routing can be controlled by setting routing rules via `assets.run_worker_first` in your Wrangler configuration file.
```
